Let's go implement this.
Let's go into this in detail such as.
Whenever the user clicks adopt,
I want to show them like,
are you sure you want to
adopt this animal, right?.
You don't want people just haphazard like,
I adopted a pet right?.
I don't know.
Depends on I guess your
goals if you want to get it,
all of them adopted immediately.
He might just auto click it for him.
I'll just mail him a dog.
It's bad idea.
Don't do that.
Okay, so we're gonna import modal at
the top import modal from ./ modal state.
We're going to add another
one called show modal false.
We're gonna add 2 methods here.
And the 1st method is gonna
be called toggle modal.
And it's gonna be really simple,
It's just gonna say this set state.
And show Modal is gonna be whatever the
opposite of show Modal is this set State.
Right?.
So if it's true, make it false.
If it's false, make it true.
And then we're gonna add
another button for adopt.
So what are we going to do
if they actually adopt it.
Adopt?.
Here you'd have some
logic of call the API,
let the shelter know that
this pets been adopted.
Here I'm just going to
Window dot location,
send you to a website that will
actually let you adopt pets.
So Bitly/pet_ adopt.
That's just gonna send you to pet
finder and you can adopt a pet there.
Okay.
So.
What we're gonna do on our button
here we're gonna add an on Click.
And on Click we're just going to
toggle modal this, toggle modal.
So because inherently if
they click this button,
it's not showing it's gonna show it.
And then underneath description, I mean
really we can put this anywhere because
it's gonna render outside of itself.
We're just gonna say, hey, if show modal.
Then render this.
Inside of a modal.
Div, Each one,
would you like to adopt name?.
And then div, class name equals buttons.
Buttons, 1st one is gonna be on Click,
equals this started dot.
Yes.
And then we'll have another one for this
toggle model, which is mean they click No.
So we're going to hide it at that point.
No.
I'm just kidding you can put
whatever you want, there.
Okay, and if show modal is not true then
what you just want to do is put colon no.
Yeah, and this one has to be this dot
state, where you can pull it out of here.
So up here underneath and where we're
pulling out all everything from the state,
you just have to pull
out show modal as well.
Right?.
Cuz we're pulling that out of state so
we can use it,
then down here we're seeing
if show model is true.
Render all this stuff in a modal.
And then the nice thing react can handle
if you give react no, it's just like,
okay, don't render anything, right.
In this particular case, if we don't want
to show a model, don't render anything.
For that particular piece.
That makes sense?.
That's interesting talking about
this set State show Modal,
I put set State here,
just this state show Modal.
That's hilarious that works that way.
Yeah, I mean, it makes sense,
the wonders of JavaScript.
So line 26 here, this dot State dot,
show modal hopefully you've
just got that right.
I had set state here on accident,
but it should just be state.
Okay.
Now if we refresh and try again, click No.
There you go.
Now it hides it.
And then if you click yes, it'll take
you to somewhere to adopt a pet.
>> Can we use the context for
the theme context for this as well,
or do we have to create it from scratch?.
Cuz these buttons were, I think read.
>> Yeah.
You could absolutely wrap
this on a theme consumer,
we could do exactly what we did here and
put that here right.
And that would color those
buttons those particular way.
>> Okay, thank you.
>> Good question.
So the part that I just wanna point
out to you, that really cool,
that's kind of easy than this.
I'm calling this.adopt, this.toggleModal.
Those are features of
the details component, right?.
And I'm referencing name, and I could
reference all sorts of other stuff.
But like, think of where this
lives in the DOM, right?.
So if I inspect element here,
Like I have modal here, right,
but the app actually lives in route, so
it's actually living outside of routes.
I'm referencing state in a different part
of the application calling functions from
a different part of it.
What's even like kind of wild here
is if I put like a event listener up
here on details, I can listen for
events that happen in modals.
Because it's actually react
synthetic event system,
that's handling those events.
Right, so you can actually use
event bubbling inside of react, and
have a bubble out of portals and back
into like the normal parts of the DOM.
It's kind of wild stuff,
it actually is occasionally useful.
So it's an advanced use case.
It's not something you always need to use,
but when it's useful, it's very useful.
Is there any like performance
considerations, or
any probably just downfalls
of using portals?.
I think the answer that's No,
I don't think there's any
performance hit by using portals.
I'm not going to give you hard and
fast rules because there's going to be
occasions, that you're going to want
to do one thing versus another.
But performance is not going
to be consideration here.
Even in like high performance,
kind of Situation a portal acts
just as well as anything else.
I mean the only machination that's going
on that's a little bit more different,
is the fact that it's having to create and
destroy disk but
I guess it has to do that anyway.
So there's no performance, sorry I had to,
you were my rubber ducky I had
to rubber duck that aloud.
Yeah, there's no reason for that.
So I would suggest just doing it this way.